Bring him here! Call a doctor!
Don't bother. He's breathed his last.
That makes four.
Kushibe was one of Aizu's finest,
and they still got him.
What now? We can't keep
ignoring this, Hirosawa.
Isn't there something we can do?
I know a way.
What?
We'll pit outlaw against outlaw. Bring me...
the Miburo.
Blue Miburo
Nio sure is dedicated.
Hey, Isami-san! What're you up to?
Filling my lungs with Kyoto air.
What for, sir?
His Imperial Majesty resides in Kyoto.
And now, the shogun,
Lord Iemochi, is also here.
I feel the air will enhance my samurai aura.
m 114.5 288.5 l 113.5 275.5 115.5 257 113 245.5 110.5 195 112.5 152 112 121.5 118 86.5 115 76 120.5 69.5 120.5 62.5 129.5 56.5 130 51 135.5 51.5 138 44.5 143.5 55 167.5 64 168.5 60 173.5 61.5 191.5 52 197.5 54.5 201 42 204.5 46 207.5 48.5 211 57 212.5 74 211 81 214 99 211.5 105.5 213.5 123.5 213.5 129.5 212.5 153 212 172.5 211 198 213.5 230.5 214 250.5 218 255 220.5 254.5 216.5 260.5 214.5 272.5 208 281.5 201 288.5 190.5 290 183.5 282 177 284.5 175.5 287 173 289.5 162.5 290 161 291 157.5 287.5 151 282.5 147 280.5 142 277.5 142 283.5 140.5 288.5 131 288.5 128.5 285 129 290.5 124 285.5 124 288 122 284 120 288.5 117 290.5
Samurai
Aura
What's a samurai aura?
I like the way you think.
Taro-kun?
Serizawa-sensei has an important
announcement to make.
Serizawa-san does?
Again? Do you think something went wrong?
I wonder.
Oh, there he is.
He's in a good mood?!
E-Excuse me, sir.
Did something good happen?
Something good? As if you don't know.
As I'm sure Sir Kondo has already told you,
The Aizu Domain has extended a
formal offer to enlist the Mibu Roshigumi.
Now, it's time we all paid
the lord of Aizu our respects.
Yes. That was the plan.
First I'm hearing of it!
You didn't tell us anything!
You always do this!
Aizu? That is good news.
But I wonder what the townsfolk will think.
Um, I'm pretty sure
Aizu is well-liked in Kyoto.
Huh?
You mean it?
Everyone celebrated when an
Aizu party came last year.
Granny, my sister, and I went out
to the bridge to see them.
Oh! It's good to have a local!
You sure come in handy!
And Serizawa-sensei made this all possible!
There you have it.
Excuse me, but please wait a moment.
Sir Yamanami? What's wrong?
I'd like to be clear. Do you mind?
Ask away.
Kyoto is still caught in a storm
of sonno joi sentiment.
We all know that.
Um...
Hm?
Excuse me, Yamanami-san.
What is "sonno joi"?
You mean you don't even know that?
I hear the words often,
but I don't really understand them.
It's a good question.
"Sonno" is reverence of
the Emperor here in Kyoto.
"Joi" expresses the sentiment that we should
expel foreigners who disturb our country.
I see.
So "sonno joi" basically means "respect
His Imperial Majesty and keep foreigners out."
But wait, doesn't that mean
most people want sonno joi?
What are you talking about?
Well spotted.
Yes. That's exactly the problem.
Huh?
You see, sonno joi comes in many forms.
Sonno joi
Anti-shogunate
Choshu
Pro-shogunate
Aizu
For example, Aizu is pro-shogunate.
They revere the Emperor and want to expel
barbarians while siding with the Shogun.
We came here for the same reason.
Sonno joi
Anti-shogunate
Choshu
Pro-shogunate
Aizu
The Choshu, meanwhile, advocates sonno joi
while staying anti-shogunate to the core.
Their view has the strongest
influence in Kyoto now.
Anti-shogunate? So some people
don't want the Shogun in charge,
and that's their idea of justice?
I wish we could all just get along.
Yes, so do I.
But their beliefs aren't the issue.
The problem is that some will do anything,
even kill, to bend the world to their vision.
The townspeople are honestly sick of them.
We have to bar our doors and windows
in fear, even on hot summer nights.
We just want to walk
where we like and be happy.
So why?
Why does only our city
have to suffer like this?
The current emperor dislikes foreigners.
People want to take advantage of that.
Huh? That's the whole reason?
Lord Tokugawa Iemochi has already
ensconced himself in Kyoto's Nijo Castle.
Rumor has it the extremists plotting
his death number 500 or more.
W-Wait, 500?
Yeah? So what?
So my question is:
are you prepared to risk your lives?
We're ronin! Easy to use and abuse!
Aizu sees us as no more than sacrificial pawns!
And we won't like every job they give us!
Of course we'll get their dirty work!
Can you still put your lives
on the line? Well?!
H-Has he got a split personality?
Am I ready to die? Really ready?
Can I say for sure that I won't
lose my nerve in the face of death?
I can!
Kondo-san!
Sounds like fun. I say we all join in.
Okita-san!
You waited till now to ask?
Yes. There's only one road ahead.
We're with you.
Damn right we are.
Anyone who can't say that wouldn't be here.
Men, follow me.
So much for trying to rattle them.
No. This is what I've been waiting for.
I knew these guys were cool!
I'm with you, too!
Huh? Then, um, so am I, if you'll have me.
We, the Mibu Roshigumi,
share one purpose: to defend Kyoto!
March.
All right! Let's go!
It itches. Why's it so scratchy?
Come on, Hijikata-san.
We need you to walk tall like Kondo-san.
Quiet, Soji.
Think we'll get some choice grub?
Everyone's excited to meet a big shot
like the lord of Aizu, huh, Hajime-kun?
Idiots.
Huh?
It doesn't matter who we serve
as long as we live like samurai.
Am I wrong?
Commissioner of Kyoto
Lord Matsudaira Higo-no-Kami of Aizu
So this is Aizu's headquarters
in Kyoto? That's some mansion.
Enjoy yourselves, sirs.
Aren't you coming in, Taro?
Dressed like this? How could I?
Forget him. We don't want him
pissing anyone off, anyway.
Hm...
Then I won't go, either.
Let's wait out here together.
Well, you are a kid.
He is a kid.
He sure is.
Huh?
Wow. What pretty stones.
Are you nuts? Don't play with them.
Just look at them. I wish I could
show these to Granny and Iroha.
Don't you dare take them!
Why do I have to stay out here, too?!
Huh? What are kids doing here?
This compound belongs
to Matsudaira Katamori.
You can't just wander in uninvited.
Look at his hair.
It's the Golden Pavilion!
Oh, this? My ma came from foreign parts.
I hear my pa got an Englishwoman with child.
She went back to her own country, though.
You must be lonely.
Don't you want to go visit your mother?
Not even a little.
My family are big-name fabric dealers.
Every day is bustling,
and everyone's nice to me.
And above all, I like this city.
I've got everything I could want.
I've come to pay my respects because
we received an order for a new kimono.
Bah! This rich kid hasn't suffered a day
in his life. Who asked for his life story?
We're here at the
invitation of the Aizu Domain.
We're the Miburo...
members of the Mibu Roshigumi.
Oh, the Miburo? I've heard of you.
A bunch of rowdy ronin from Edo
that nobody here can stand, right?
No, that's a bit of a misunderstanding.
We're really working
to make Kyoto a safer place.
Really? I had no idea.
Still, if they've called in tough samurai,
it must be because of you-know-what.
What do you mean?
Oh, never mind. Forget I said anything.
Anyway, it takes a special kind of person
to come guard somebody else's city.
Young master, we should be going.
Oh, you're right. We'd better head back.
My family runs Tsuruya on Nijo-dori.
We get all sorts there.
Huh? Oh, okay.
My name's Seto. Come see me if you're
ever in the market for information.
Bye.
My name's Nio. See you, Seto-kun.
He was pretty friendly, don't you think?
In what universe?
He had a faint scent blood on him.
Raise your heads.
I am Matsudaira Katamori,
Commissioner of Kyoto and Lord of Aizu.
By order of the Emperor and the Shogun,
I have come from my domain
to keep the peace here in our capital.
Sir.
You did well to travel here
from Edo to defend the Shogun.
Sir.
We...
We came from Edo with 234 brave men.
Yet Kiyokawa Hachiro, who proposed the plan,
contrived to turn most back to Edo.
Only 15 of us remained.
The storm of sonno joi has raged
since the coming of the Black Ships.
A foreigner was cut down
at Namamugi last year,
and here in Kyoto, assassins kill
in the name of "heaven's justice."
We wish only to defend
Kyoto as you do, my lord.
Yet we came with nothing
but our conviction.
To our shame, with no stipends of our own,
we now presume on the Yagis' kindness.
We hope to offer our utmost
not in passing, but in perpetuity.
He wrote the whole speech on his hands.
Thus, we have come to beg
Your Lordship for support.
If I had my way, I'd go home
to a peaceful life in Aizu this instant!
This is a temple, a place for Buddhas.
I'll tell no lies here,
so be frank with me as well.
I want to become a samurai in body and soul!
I want to fight strong guys!
I want to laze around all day!
I wish to master the blade!
I want women to throw themselves at me!
I want to get ahead!
I want to eat the finest food!
I want to debate as many people as I can!
You all dream small!
What delightful fellows!
My lord.
Hm? You there.
Tell me what you really want.
I have nothing to hide.
Kondo's speech summed up my thoughts.
I want to sweep the trash
from this city, nothing more.
What a man!
That's our Hijikata-san.
Hey! Quit it!
Very good. I like you.
What a funny lord.
Gentlemen of the Roshigumi,
I have something I'd like you to see.
Follow me.
Who's this?
The fourth Aizu man cut down on the street.
Every victim had his eyes
ripped out, as you see here.
Why would anyone do that?
He relayed the killer's words
to us just before he passed:
"Are you Aizu dogs blind?
The five of us will see heaven's justice done."
I have a request.
Please hunt down these five devils,
and send them to their graves.
Their eyes?
How could anyone do
something so awful? They'll pay.
First, we need information.
What they look like, when they strike,
how they operate, anything.
Information...
Do you have an idea?
Oh, no, nothing definite.
Tell us.
The kid knows?
Are you serious?
A child?
Y-You can't trust that guy.
Especially his looks.
No, we shouldn't judge him
by his appearance.
Well then, Nio-kun,
we'll leave that to you boys.
Yes, sir.
C-Count me out!
We're wasting time.
I know the enemy will target me.
All I need to do is take a walk,
and they'll come to me.
H-How can you be so sure?
How?
Because anyone can see that I, Serizawa Kamo,
am a force to be reckoned with!
They can't ignore me.
Taro-kun, do you have a moment?
Yes, sir.
What will you do, Hajime-kun?
He said Tsuruya on Nijo-dori, right?
What are we waiting for?
Wow, what a surprise.
I never imagined you'd
come straight here today.
Sorry for barging in on you
so suddenly, Seto-kun.
Oh, it's no trouble.
I can't offer you a
quiet place to talk, though.
This is a nice shop.
Sure is, although
it's getting long in the tooth.
The walls are plastered.
Pretty color, don't you think?
No, I didn't mean that.
This is what you call
"storefront sales," right?
You set out your wares in front of the shop
and let your customers choose.
They're so colorful that
they feel excited just coming here.
You sure know a lot.
I learned by helping out
at my granny's dango shop.
It's called Chirinuya.
Have you heard of it?
Yup, I know the place.
Every customer here
looks genuinely happy.
They're all engrossed
in picking what to buy.
So if you ask me,
this really is a nice shop.
Thanks. I'm glad to hear you say so.
I thought all you Miburo came from Edo.
All the grownups did,
but we three kids were born in Kyoto.
Oh, so that's it.
That makes us four of a kind.
Now, let me guess.
You're here about the
murdered Aizu samurai.
Yes.
It started after the lord of Aizu moved in.
Someone killed a samurai on his way home
from Shimabara and took his eyes.
There has to be a grudge behind it.
A grudge?
That's no excuse, though.
Whatever their reasons,
they've gone too far.
Yes.
Huh. That's a surprise.
I figured you'd get angrier.
Really? I mean, I am angry, of course.
You don't look it.
Is that all?
Oh, I know where the killings happened, too.
On this map... it'd be around here.
I see. They're mostly near the Kamo River.
We're wasting time. I'm leaving.
Anyway, it's a real mess.
Huh?
I shouldn't have to tell you three,
but this city's in bad shape.
People are flocking here from all over.
Choshu or Aizu, extremists
or Miburo, it's all the same.
They're all outsiders.
Hey, what do you say we chase them off?
Cockroaches, every one of them.
I'll work with you to keep this city safe.
Thank you. But...
I only hope that's enough
to bring peace to the city.
Yes.
So do I.
He said we'd better go this way,
since it's getting dark.
What did you think, Hajime-kun?
Hmph. What did you think?
Well, Seto-kun's pretty fishy.
When did you catch on?
Well, from the start.
The way he was talking,
it felt like he was leading us along.
Seeing him again made me sure of it.
He's suspicious.
Right.
Should we kill him?
Hm...
No. I'd like to have
one more honest talk with him.
You never make any sense.
You think so?
An umbrella.
Will he strike?
It's a good thing we had our guards up.
We may be kids, but we're not easy prey.
I pity you children.
United
in
Purpose
Next time
Saito Hajime here.
I was out with Nio when we ran
into the guy behind the killings.
Who the hell is he, anyway?
His first strike proves he knows
how to use a sword, but that's it.
There's no backing out now.
Our only choice is to fight.
Let's get him, Nio!
Next time: "To Each His Own Justice."
Don't you dare miss it.
To
Each
His Own
Justice